---
layout: lecture
title: "Introduction"
permalink: /lectures/oop-lectures/01-week
---

<p class="message">
Getting Started
</p>


<h4>
	<span class="fa fa-picture-o fa-lg main-list-item-icon"></span>
	Slides
</h4>
<h4>
	<span class="fa fa-bars fa-lg main-list-item-icon"></span>
	Agenda
</h4>

- Introduction to Course
- Compiling code in a Linux based enviroment


<h4>
	<span class="fa fa-book fa-lg main-list-item-icon"></span>
	Reading
</h4>

- []
<h4>
	<span class="fa fa-flask fa-lg main-list-item-icon"></span>
	Lab
</h4>

- practice


<h4>
Notes
</h4>

## About C++
- C++ was developed from the C programming
language, by adding some features to it. These
features can be collected in three groups:
1.  Non-object-oriented features, which can be
used in coding phase. These are not
involved with the programming technique.
2.   Features which support object-oriented
programming.
3.  Features which support generic
programming.

- With minor exceptions, C++ is a superset of C.

## C++'s Enhancements to C (Non-OO)
### Comment Lines

* /* This is a comment */

* // This is a comment

* C++  allows  you  to  begin  a  comment  with  //  and  use  the  
remainder of the line for comment text.

* This increases readability.

### Declarations and Definitions in C++

* Remember;  there  is  a  difference  between  a  declaration  
and a definition

* A  declaration  introduces  a  name an  identifier  to  the  
compiler. It tells the compiler “ This function or this variable
exists somewhere, and here is what it should look like.”

* A definition, on the other hand, says: “ Make this variable here ” or “ Make  this  function  here.” It  allocates  storage  for  the name.

#### Example

extern int i; // Declaration

int i; // Definition

struct ComplexT{    // Declaration
float re,im;
};

ComplexT c1,c2;     //  Definition

void func( int, int);   //  Declaration
(its body is a definition)


## Compilation Process

Compiling a source code file in C++ is a four-step process. For example, if you have a C++ source code file named prog1.cpp and you execute the compile command

   g++ -Wall -std=c++11 -o prog1 prog1.cpp

the compilation process looks like this:

  -  The C++ preprocessor copies the contents of the included header files into the source code file, generates macro code, and replaces symbolic constants defined using #define with their values.

  -  The expanded source code file produced by the C++ preprocessor is compiled into the assembly language for the platform.

  -  The assembler code generated by the compiler is assembled into the object code for the platform.

  -  The object code file generated by the assembler is linked together with the object code files for any library functions used to produce an executable file.

By using appropriate compiler options, we can stop this process at any stage.

  -  To stop the process after the preprocessor step, you can use the -E option:

       g++ -Wall -std=c++11 -E prog1.cpp

  -  The expanded source code file will be printed on standard output (the screen by default); you can redirect the output to a file if you wish. Note that the expanded source code file is often incredibly large - a 20 line source code file can easily produce an expanded file of 20,000 lines or more, depending on which header files were included.

  -  To stop the process after the compile step, you can use the -S option:

       g++ -Wall -std=c++11 -S prog1.cpp

    By default, the assembler code for a source file named filename.cpp will be placed in a file named filename.s.

  -  To stop the process after the assembly step, you can use the -c option:

       g++ -Wall -std=c++11 -c prog1.cpp

    By default, the assembler code for a source file named filename.cpp will be placed in a file named filename.o.
